well howdy there Internet people it's
bug on so today we're gonna talk about
something very deep very philosophical
very deep we're gonna talk about
shopping cart theory don't laugh it is
actually way deeper then most people
would think just by looking at it looks
just like a gimmick on social media and
it is but if you follow the Domino's man
it leads you to some unique territory
and I love it if you have no idea what
I'm talking about on social media right
now people are discussing shopping cart
theory and basically it's a little thing
that allows you to determine whether or
not you're a good or bad person based on
whether or not you return your shopping
cart it's the little corral in the
parking lot I don't know the good and
bad or the right terms for it
think socially responsible would be a
better one but good and that'll work for
our demonstration here why is it a good
test for that because there's no force
if you don't do it nobody's gonna jump
out of the bushes and grab you're right
there's no benefit to you no personal
gain by returning that cart and you lose
nothing if you don't do it it's
completely neutral it's just a good
measure of whether or not you will do
your part to keep things running in an
orderly fashion it's kind of cool that
way if you accept it as that what's the
first thing you notice when you go into
a parking lot most people are good yeah
you're gonna see maybe five or six
shopping carts strong about but most the
overwhelming majority fifty or a hundred
of them are going to be in those core
howls most people are good most people
will do their part
where do you see the shopping carts that
are just left out some are like you know
near the tree that's in the parking lot
you know with one wheel up on the curb
so it doesn't roll out and hit anybody's
car because even though they're not
gonna will it all the way back they're
still going to be a little responsible
with it and then there's some that are
just left in parking lots and spaces and
then there's some that are you know just
left to roll wherever and those are
typically way out away from the store
where they've stopped putting those
Corral's almost like access has
something to do with it the means to be
socially responsible plays into it kind
of like they're like man that's just too
far away I can't do it don't have time
for whatever there's a reason because
they don't have that access why do
people do it why are most people good in
this situation well first it's the
obvious they know it's a social norm
they know they've been educated they've
been lad it's a social norm to do this
and then the second is access access
certainly seems to play into it the
means to be socially responsible that's
all you need to keep things running if
that's all you need to maintain order
education leadership and access
what why do government's use force
that's the whole justification for is
that they're there to maintain order
without them everything would just you
know it'd be chaos so why do they use
force when education leadership and
access is all you need access in the
case of a society would be more along
the lines of a baseline that nobody can
fall below everybody is going to have
certain things maybe it's housing health
care food you know whatever whatever
that society deems but that's the
baseline and it's everybody's social
responsibility to make sure that nobody
falls below that so you need access
leadership and education that's it
that's all you need for a functioning
society well then why do we have this
this violence based government this
force based government that every
government has why why do we have those
people in power because it's not about
running a society it's about maintaining
power and the easiest way to get people
to give up power is to convince them
that you're protecting them from
somebody those others those evil people
because everybody's bad and out to get
you
but shopping-cart theory proves most
people are cut most people will do their
part if they know what their part is
it's almost like those in power
intentionally cultivate scapegoats so
you can kick down at them feel better
you're better than those people they're
not good but most people are in fact I
would imagine that most of you have seen
somebody grab a cart that wasn't theirs
and return it to the corral most people
are good most people would even give you
a hand up help you out help those that
didn't have immediate access
and if something falls through the
cracks there could be some kind of
organized safety net to make sure that
all the carts make it to the corral even
for those who don't have access could
happen maybe have more little vests so
what's the solution to this maybe it's
time to demand more from each other
instead of demanding less maybe it's
time to increase social responsibility
take individual responsibility for all
of society that is how we would lead
ourselves that is how you can change the
world
a shopping cart theory proves that most
of society's fears aren't genuine
they're not real they're just things
people have come to believe because they
were socially conditioned to believe
them just like they were conditioned to
believe that it's their responsibility
to return that cart it's probably time
to up the ante we're at a point in
history where we can demand more of each
other and now's the time to do it
because as our government becomes less
and less effective we're gonna have to
lead ourselves anyway it's just a fault
y'all have a good day